# Fisheries-Nutrition-Modeling
This repository contains code and data associated with the diversity disaggregation

For marine species disaggregation, we used country-specific FAO FishStat historic catch and production data from 2014 to proportionally assign consumption projections to the Aglink- Cosimo outputs. Freshwater species, with the exception of salmon which were calculated separately using FAO trade data, and any fish destined to fishmeal, fish oil, or discards were removed. National apparent consumption of marine seafood by species from all producing sectors and sources (aquaculture, capture, and import) was calculated by subtracting exports from production, using FAO food balance sheets (according to the proportion of species within each seafood commodity category), and adding imports (assuming a species mix within trade codes proportional to trade partner production). Negative apparent consumption was assumed to be zero. Finally, we scale total harvest by the edible portion of each species.

Consumption of freshwater taxa was generated by matching FAO FishStat production and trade labels nested in the same commodity group. All commodities were converted to live weights using freshwater conversion factors. The proportion of freshwater species consumed was further disaggregated with household survey data38, and recreational fishery consumptio.  Household surveys were used to adjust the volume of capture fishery relative to aquaculture in countries, as well as used to disaggregate unidentified commodity groups for five countries. Recreational fisheries data from ancillary sources were included for countries that have high but potentially under-reported recreational participation. 

We estimated the likely mix of species consumed as described above and then matched these individual species identities with the AFCD. To link disaggregated species to the AFCD, we used a hierarchical approach to fill the nutritional value for all 7 nutrients to all species consumed globally. When multiple entries were present for a single species, we took the mean of all entries. We built this hierarchy according to the following order: 1) scientific name, 2) average of species genus, 3) average of species family, 3) common name, 4) average of species order, and 5) average of GND category. In the disaggregation effort, we found 2,143 different aquatic species being consumed globally. We matched the following nutrients: protein, iron, zinc, calcium, vitamin A, vitamin B12, and omega-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids. After this matching process, we updated the estimates of nutrient intake at national levels.
